# Data description
The proposed research is to report the effects of nitrogen and plant growth regulator (PGR) applications on orchardgrass seed moisture content and seed weight over the growth stages of the crop. Shattering of the seed before harvest leads to significant economic loss since the shattered seed cannot be harvested. The broader impact of the study is to establish a recommended timing to harvest when seed crop has sufficiently matured, and shattering is not severe. To answer those questions, the data will include fresh seed weight, dry seed weight, seed moisture content, dry seed moisture content which will be recorded from three different spikelet and floret positions. An oven will be used to dry the seed samples and measure the dry weight. Floret will be counted at three positions of the florets. Growth stages will be taken visually using the BBCH scale. Growing degree days (GDD) will be calculated using weather temperature readings. The types of data will be mainly text, spreadsheets, and pictures; however, the pictures of the field will be used for presenting to an audience only. The data are observational and experimental. The temperature records used for the GDD calculations will include data taken from surveys. Seed crop data will be taken from field trials where four treatments of nitrogen and PGR applications are applied to different plots giving different data. After that, the seed weight will be plotted over time and GDD to record the changes in seed weight and moisture content and eventually estimate higher seed weight and lower moisture content where harvest can be optimized by less shattering incidence. The data will be collected three times a week. Flower heads will be collected around 10 am to noon. After that, 30 seed will be separated and weighed from each position on the spikelet and floret which would be 180 per flower head. After weighing, the samples are put in the oven for two hours and the dried samples are weighed again. Fresh and dry moisture content will be recorded. BBCH recordings can be taken visually, while GDD can be calculated using a base temperature, a daily minimum temperature, and daily maximum temperature reading. The temperature readings will be taken from the Hyslop Weather Station website. Finally, pictures will be taken with an iPhone camera. A total of 30,000 seed samples that will be weighed which will be recorded in Excel spreadsheets. The estimated data size will be around 2 MB, excluding the size of pictures which would be around four to five MB per picture.

# Roles and responsibilities
The roles of data protection and management are divided between the private investigator (PI), a research assistant (RA), and a graduate student. Some roles and responsibilities are shared by the three people working on the project. Data collection, generation, organization, meta generation, data analysis, submission of a rough plan data management plan (DMP) implementation are the roles of the graduate student. Data archiving, quality control of data, data management plan final implementation are the responsibilities of the PI. Finally, instrumentation maintenance is the responsibility of the research assistant. Shared roles between the PI and the graduate student include software creation, software maintenance. Sensitive data are information that are not usually disclosed such as student data and medical conditions. This research project does not generate or involves any sensitive data. The funding for this research was accumulated from three funding agencies. One belongs to the private sector, while the other two are foundations. There are no disclosure agreements, contracts, or data management plan requirements by the funding agencies. However, the funding agencies require the work to be either published in scientific journals or provided to farmers through extension articles. Once the graduate student leaves, The PI and RA will be responsible for the roles through personal communication and metadata implementation to describe the data, and data collection.

# Data standards and metadata
The project will follow the Dublin Core Metadata Element Set (ISO Standard 15836) for data description and communication. Dublin core metadata standard is one of the most basic implemented and used standards in the world. The guideline will be used to define terms, and to synthesis an abstract. The metadata standard won’t be adequate for the specificity of agricultural sciences, so there would be possible new terms for the plan. Data documentation will be recorded with lab notes as often as any changes occurring in the timeline of the project by all the workers in the research. Lab notes documentation will include methods, lab protocols, information to relate digital data to physical samples, source of the seeds, species of the seeds, Instrumentation used for data collection, abbreviations used in your data. Also, information from lab notes will be transferred into ReadMe txt files to include them with the spreadsheets. Blank spaces in the datasheets and txt files will be missing since some flowers would abort seed. Metadata and data exchange will occur weekly during lab meetings to reduce data documentation variation caused by the different information recorded by three workers which are the PI, the RA, and the graduate student. 

# Storage and security
There are no strict security measures for the data; however, data will be stored in five locations to prevent data loss. Two are cloud storages, while the other two include an external drive storage and the laptop drive which work is being done on. The last storage will be in the OSU network drive. The data will be uploaded as CSV files in the clouds, which are Google drive, and Box storage. The Kumo software will be used to upload data directly into two cloud storages which ensures all versions of the data are synchronized. The data will be copied to hard-case large external drive instead of a small external flash-drive. The CSV files will be transferred using the WinSCP program to the OSU Z drive. The data will be updated monthly to maintain the data. The plans can preserve the data up to 5 years. Few precautions will include sending the data to the PI of the project, and emails where those data are sent are kept since the email drive can serve as an extra drive. Also, the data will be checked periodically at storages to make sure that data is not lost. Strategies to keep the data organized is keeping the files within folders in the drive. Organization of data includes seasonal year, and data contents. 

# Access and data sharing
There are no restrictions on the data. All data will be shared upon completion of data collection and analysis. The Ag Data Commons repository will be used for data sharing. Data types include CSV, and IMG for the pictures. Data formats will include CSV, and R files that show the scripts. Data license will be CCO under the guidelines of the repository. According to the repository page, datasets are assigned to Digital Object Identifiers (DOI). The repository’s content is offered “as is” and will require from users to follow scholarly norms such as citations. The guidelines for the repository are clearly mentioned in the website (https://data.nal.usda.gov/about-ag-data-commons). 


# Archiving and preservation
As a short-term strategy, data will be preserved in a shared drive that is accessible to the lab staff and maintained by the PI after finishing the project and graduation of the graduation student. The previous mentioned repository will be the main preservation method for the data. Another repository is the Scholars’ Archive at Oregon State University where the preservation policies are present and subject to renewal every three years. The proposed preservation would be at least around 5 to 10 years. All data will be in txt or csv format.



Repository with source code [here](https://github.com/clarallebot/GRAD521_DMPtemplate)
