The proposed research is to report the effects of nitrogen and plant growth regulator (PGR) applications on orchardgrass seed moisture content and seed weight over the growth stages of the crop. Shattering of the seed before harvest leads to significant economic loss since the shattered seed cannot be harvested. The broader impact of the study is to establish a recommended timing to harvest when seed crop has sufficiently matured, and shattering is not severe.
	To answer those questions, the data will include fresh seed weight, dry seed weight, seed moisture content, dry seed moisture content which will be recorded from three different spikelet and floret positions. An oven will be used to dry the seed samples and measure the dry weight. Floret will be counted at three positions of the florets. Growth stages will be taken visually using the BBCH scale. Growing degree days (GDD) will be calculated using weather temperature readings. 
	The type of data is mainly text and spreadsheets. The temperature records used for the GDD calculations will include data taken from surveys. Seed crop data will be taken from field trials where four treatments of nitrogen and PGR applications are applied to different plots giving different data. After that, the seed weight will be plotted over time and GDD to record the changes in seed weight and moisture content and eventually estimate higher seed weight and lower moisture content where harvest can be optimized by less shattering incidence. 
	The data will be collected three times a week. Flower heads will be collected around 10 am to noon. After that, 30 seed will be separated and weighed from each position on the spikelet and floret which would be 180 per flower head. After weighing, the samples are put in the oven for two hours and the dried samples are weighed again. Fresh and dry moisture content will be recorded. BBCH recordings can be taken visually, while GDD can be calculated using a base temperature, a daily minimum temperature, and daily maximum temperature reading. The temperature readings will be taken from the Hyslop Weather Station website. A total of 30,000 seed samples that will be weighed which will be recorded in Excel spreadsheets. The estimated data size will be around 2 MB.
